# Ball and Pipe Control System
Overview of Project: MATLAB codes to open serial communication with a ball and pipe system. The system is made of a vertical cylinder with a ping pong ball controlled by a fan on the bottom and height measured by a time of flight sensor on top. The objective is to balance the ball at a target altitude. 
Theory of Control Method: The control method used here was the Ziegler-Nichols method. This is a PID (Proportional-Integral-Derivative) method. The proportional term will increase the the current action by a set gain. The integral term will look back over past actions to see where it was and where it will go. The derivative term will predict how much farther the system will need to in order to reach the goal. Furthermore, this method relies on multiple inputs from the user. This is because the integral term integrates the system between the current action and the previous one. So instead of acting like a 'smart system', a Ziegler-Nichols system will rely on user inputs to find the perect range for the system to operate at. The advantage to this method is that it is simple to implement, but it does take some trial-and-error can can be aggressive with overshoot. 
How to apply it to the ball and pipe system: The gains from the I and D controller are set to zero so that the influence of P can be determined. To find the values of these parameters, and to calculate the tuning constants, use the following procedure: 1. Remove integral and derivative action. Set integral time (Ti) to its largest value and set the derivative controller (Td) to zero. 2. Create a small disturbance in the loop by changing the set point. Adjust the proportional, increasing and/or decreasing, the gain until the oscillations have constant amplitude. 3.  Record the gain value (Ku) and period of oscillation (Pu). 4. Plug these values into the Ziegler-Nichols closed loop equations and determine the necessary settings for the controller.
Guide to Use Code:
